.TH POLL 1 "June 2015" "Tarim" "User Commands"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]poll\f[] \- monitor special files, character devices and
named pipes for changes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]poll\f[] [ [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[]] \f[I]FILE\f[] ]\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]poll\f[] outputs a special file's contents, when it changes,
one line at a time.
It is intended for use with files such as GPIO inputs which appear
in the /sys file system.
It will also work with named pipes and character devices but not
normal files.
It is often of use with embedded Linux machines such as the
Raspberry Pi.
.PP
\f[B]poll\f[], contrary to what its name suggests, sleeps between
changes in files.
It is based on the system library \f[B]poll\f[](2).
.PP
Examples:
.PP
\f[CR]
      poll\ --debounce\ 20\ --unique\ "+gpio\ %l\ %t\\n"\ /sys/class/gpio/gpio4/value\ --default\ --delimiter\ \[aq]\\2\\3\\r\\n\[aq]\ "+rfid\ %l\\n"\ /dev/ttyAMA0
\f[]
.PP
Monitor a switch conected to a GPIO pin and an RFID reader
connected to a serial port.
Output the switch value and a time (in nanoseconds) when it changes
state ignoring any bouncing for 20ms after it is switched.
Output the value read by the RFID reader, delimited by any of
ctrl-B, ctrl-C, carriage return and newline.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options apply to all subsequent files until they are overridden.
.SS \f[I]+FORMAT\f[]
.PP
Controls output.
Interpretted sequences are:
.PP
\f[CR]
      %l\ \ Line\ from\ file
      %p\ \ Filename
      %t\ \ Time\ since\ Unix\ epoch\ in\ nanoseconds
      %%\ \ A\ single\ %
\f[]
.SS \f[B]--debounce\f[] \f[I]TIME\f[]
.PP
After a value change, wait this amount of time (in milliseconds)
before reporting any further change.
Useful with \f[B]--unique\f[] as switch bouncing will be
completely ignored.
.SS \f[B]--unique\f[]
.PP
Only report unique values.
Useful with \f[B]--debounce\f[].
.SS \f[B]--duplicates\f[]
.PP
Allow all values to be output (opposite of \f[B]--unique\f[]).
.SS \f[B]--delimiters\f[] \f[I]STRING\f[]
.PP
Lines in the file are delimited by one of the characters in
\f[I]STRING\f[].
.SS \f[B]--default\f[]
.PP
Set options back to default values.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
Hard coded to have a limit of 64 files and an input line length of
1024 characters.
Won't list changes to a \[lq]normal\[rq] file - use
\f[B]tail -f\f[] instead.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Tarim.
Errors to <poll-cmd@mediaplaygrounds.co.uk>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]poll\f[](2), \f[B]tail\f[](1)
